Hi, I'm Dan Mbanga with AWS
Training and Certification.
Welcome to our introduction
to Artificial Intelligence.
I have been with AWS
for four years and I'm
currently responsible
for Business Development
in Machine Learning
and Deep Learning.
As part of the Business
Development team in Amazon AI,
I have contributed to helping
our customers bringing
their strategy
from conception to realization
on the AWS environment.
In this video, you will learn
what Artificial Intelligence is,
how it adds value to
different businesses,
and how Amazon uses
AI in its products.
We'll look at a use case
where AI plays an important role,
and you'll learn about
some AWS services
that you can use to develop
an AI ready application.
Simply stated, AI is intelligent
behavior by machines,
that means any device
that can perceive
its environment and take
actions accordingly, has AI.
By using AI, a machine
can mimic cognitive
human functions,
like learning and
problem-solving.
A common example of using
Artificial Intelligence is giving
machines the ability to scan
and interpret their
physical environment,
so that they can handle moving
around and even up
and down the stairs.
To make the machines act
and react like humans,
we need to provide them with
information from the real world,
in order to mimic
human intelligence AI
relies on something called
knowledge engineering.
Knowledge engineering is
the key component of AI research,
machines with AI are
expected to solve problems
like humans would.
To do that, machines
need extensive knowledge
of the real world.
In other words, they need
to understand things
like the relationships between
objects and situations,
the properties of an event,
cause and effect, and more.
This data is then processed
and fed to software
programs that in
turn analyze the data and come
up with decisions for
a particular problem,
the way humans do.
In short, the goal is to
transfer human expertise
to a software program,
that can take in the
same data and come
to the same conclusions
as humans would.
This process of feeding data to
a software program and coming up
with human-like decisions is also
known as the modeling process.
The model, which is basically
your software algorithm is
consistently refined
until its decisions
are close to those a
human would come up with.
If the decision for a
particular problem is
inconsistent with what a
human decision would be,
then we go back to
the model and debug it
until we improve it.
As you might expect,
this is an iterative process.
AI presents us with
new possibilities and
promotes growth in business,
all kinds of companies
are using AI to innovate.
Companies are making
significant investment to
improve their products
based on user satisfaction,
feedback, trends and more,
and they are using AI to do it.
Here are a few examples of
how AI is being used today,
detecting and deterring
security threats and fraud,
resolving users technology issues
through automated call
center or chatbot,
automating repeatable tasks
such as payroll, data entry,
and audit, anticipating
users' actions and
providing recommendations,
monitoring social media comments,
and tailoring advertising
content as per search trends.
Once you start learning about AI,
you start seeing terms like
Machine Learning
and Deep Learning.
Machine Learning also called
ML and Deep Learning
also called DL,
are really subsets of AI.
You can create an AI system with
the help of ML and DL algorithms,
for example a software program
to predict user
actions and suggest
recommendations or a
system that understands
thoughts and sentences spoken
by a human like Alexa.
Let's talk about these fields
and how they differ
from each other.
Machine Learning is
often deployed where
explicit programming is
too rigid or impractical.
Unlike regular computer code,
Machine Learning uses
data to generate
statistical code that will
output the right result,
based on the pattern recognized
from previous examples of input.
Machine Learning starts
with the data it
already has about a situation.
It processes data
using algorithms to
recognize patterns of a
behavior and outcomes,
it then interprets those patterns
to predict the future outcomes.
These predictions are
used to make a decision
about the next step for the
Machine Learning to take.
That decision produces results,
which are then evaluated and
added into the pool of data,
the new data would
influence the predictions
and subsequent decisions
made going forward,
this is how Machine
Learning learns over time.
Machine Learning can make
predictions from huge datasets,
optimize utility functions,
and extract hidden patterns
and structures from the
datasets by classifying data.
This enables a
software program to
learn and make predictions
in the future.
Deep Learning takes Machine
Learning a step further.
Rather than telling the machine
what features it
needs to look for,
Deep Learning enables
the machine to
define the features
it needs to look
for itself based on the
data it's being provided.
In this example,
traditional Machine
Learning requires you to
tell the machine how
to differentiate
between a rectangle and a circle.
Deep Learning on the other hand,
shows machines several
examples of rectangles.
It analyzes those examples and
infers common features
that define a rectangle.
At this point, it
can identify on its
own whether it's
looking at a rectangle.
In the same way our brains
process information
using neurons,
Deep Learning processes
information using
similar but artificial
processing structures
known as artificial
neural networks.
It builds these structures
from the data it analyzes,
and then infers features about
its subject matter
based on the data.
Then it weighs those features
according to certainty
and commonality,
and organizes them into layers of
hierarchies and relationships
with each order.
To return to the circle
and rectangle example,
if the Deep Learning
machine looks at
its reference data on
what a rectangle is,
it can infer that
rectangles are built
from four sides at right angles.
Unlike Machine Learning,
the Deep Learning
machine doesn't have to
be told to look for the
number or angle or sides,
instead, it recognizes
the sides as
a common feature of the
reference data on its own.
It can then look at the
big blue rectangle,
see that it has four
sides at right angles,
and determine with
strong certainty
that it's a rectangle.
It can also determine that
the purple square is
probably a rectangle,
since it also has four
sides at right angles,
even though its four sides
appear to be equal and
it's not of a color
that is included in
the reference data.
To help understand the
differences between AI,
Machine Learning,
and Deep Learning,
let's go through a very
high-level example
of how these three
might be applied to common
task of facial recognition.
In this example, an Artificial
Intelligence wouldn't
necessarily know that it was
looking at three people,
unless it has been
thought what to
look for in order to spot people.
This requires a lot
of trial and error on
the part of the developers
creating the algorithm,
and it doesn't involve
the machine having to
learn anything about
what humans look like,
other than what the developers
tell it to look for.
The machine may be provided with
the ability to identify
head shapes or skin tones,
but without the ability to learn,
the machine could fail simply
because of the wide range of
diversity in what
humans look like.
For instance, it might not
recognize a person
because of a beard,
which could generate
a false negative.
With Machine Learning however,
you can give the machine
a rough framework
for what a person looks like and
the ability to
iteratively process and
learn other human appearances
through experience.
So here the machine can
recognize the figure
in the middle,
since it's the closest to the
figure example it already
knows with a similar facial
shape and hair shape.
Once it confirms that
these new appearance
is a person's face,
it becomes more confident
in its ability to
recognize humans based on
facial and hair shape,
but less confident
in brown hair color.
With this new information,
it might now be able to recognize
person three as its
confidence in facial shape
is high enough to
overcome its lack of
knowledge in other areas
such as hair-shape and skin tone.
But because the machine
was not prepared
to recognize facial
hair ahead of time,
it still doesn't have
the ability to
recognize person one.
That's why deep learning is
such a popular choice
for facial recognition.
With deep learning, the
machine is provided
lots of facial
reference data upfront,
and unlike traditional
Machine Learning or AI,
it isn't always told exactly
what features to look for.
It uses it's
highly advanced data
processing capabilities and
neural networks to derive
the important features
it needs to look
for from the data itself.
Rather than the
developers telling
the machine ahead of time
how to recognize specific,
how to define things
like facial hair,
the machine simply looks
for the common features
that define all of the
humans in this data,
and looks for those in
the things that it sees.
In other words, the
machine defines
the essential features of
its subject rather
than the developer.
That's what distinguishes
deep learning
from the traditional
machine learning.
Now that we understand
what AI is,
let's talk about how to
establish an effective
AI strategy.
You can establish an
effective AI strategy in
your organization with the help
of fast computing environment,
data gathered from various
sources such as social media,
browsing trends and more,
and advanced learning algorithms.
Let's start with the data.
More data means better analytics
and better analytics
results in better products.
Better products means more users
and that in turn generates
more data for you.
This in simple terms is
the flywheel for data.
You can gather data
from a number of
sources like clickstream
and user activity,
then you can analyze it
using tools like Hadoop,
and Spark, and Amazon
Elastic search surveys.
Using the analysis, you
can feed the AI and
machine learning
algorithms to form
pattern recognitions and
generate predictions.
Then, you can use those
predictions to make
your products better and
drive more users do it.
By using a combination
of programming models,
algorithms, data,
and hardware acceleration with
infrastructure such as GPUs,
you can develop a framework
that helps with AI
enabled features like
image understanding,
speech recognition,
natural language
processing, and autonomy.
These combination of
programming models, algorithms,
and data is usually what forms
the basis of machine learning
and deep learning frameworks,
and the underlying
hardware infrastructure
supports the frameworks.
Today, AI is being used
all across Amazon.
On amazon.com, users see
recommendations suggested by
Amazon's recommendation engine,
which improves their
shopping experience.
We also use AI to spot trends in
the customer's experience
so that we can
develop new products and
enhance existing products.
In the fulfillment and
logistic departments,
robots pick, pile,
sort, and move boxes
around so that they can
be shipped to customers.
Our employees used to have
to walk miles each day.
By using AI, we save time and
free up our staff to serve
more customers faster.
Now AWS is making AI
tools broadly available
so that businesses can
innovate and improve
their products.
Amazon Web Services offers a
range of services in AI by
leveraging Amazon's
internal experience
with AI and machine learning.
These services are separated
here according to four layers,
AI services, AI platforms,
AI frameworks, and
AI Infrastructure.
They organize from
the least complex
to the most complex going
from top to bottom.
Let's take a brief look
into each of these layers.
Our AI services are each built to
handle specific common AI tasks.
These services enable
developers to add
Intelligence to their
applications through
an API called to
pre-train services
rather than developing
and training
their own deep learning models.
Amazon Recognition
makes it easy to
add image analysis for
your applications.
With recognition, you can
detect specific objects, scenes,
and faces like celebrities and
identify inappropriate
content in images.
You can also search
and compare faces.
Recognitions API enables
you to quickly add
sophisticated deep
learning-based visual search
and image classification
to your applications.
Amazon Polly is a service that
turns texts into lifelike speech,
allowing you to create
applications that talk and
build entirely new categories
of speech enabled product.
Amazon Polly's
text-to-speech service uses
advanced deep learning
technologies to
synthesize speech that
sounds like human voice.
Amazon Lex is a
service for building
conversational interfaces
into any application
using voice and text.
It provides automatic speech
recognition for converting
speech-to-text and natural
language understanding
to recognize the
intent of the text.
That lets you build applications
with highly engaging
user experiences and
life-like conversational
interactions.
The AI platforms layer of the
stack includes products and
frameworks that are designed to
support custom AI related tasks,
such as training and
Machine Learning model
with your own data.
For customers who
want to fully manage
platform for building models
using their own data,
we have Amazon Machine Learning.
It's designed for developers
and data scientists
who want to focus
on building models.
The Platform removes
the undifferentiated
overhead associated with
deploying and managing
infrastructure
for training and hosting models.
It can analyze your data,
provide you with suggested
transformations for the data,
train your model,
and even help you
with evaluating your
model for accuracy.
Amazon EMR is a flexible,
customizable, and manage big
data processing platform.
It's a manage solution
in that it can handle
things like scaling and
high availability for you.
Amazon EMR does not require
a deep understanding
of how to set up and
administer Big Data Platforms,
you get a preconfigured cluster
ready to receive your
analytics workload.
It is built for any Data
Science Workload not just AI.
Apache Spark is an open-source,
distributed processing
system commonly
used for Big Data workloads.
Apache Spark utilizes
in-memory caching and optimize
execution for fast performance
and it supports general
batch processing,
Streaming Analytics,
Machine Learning,
graph database, and
ad hoc queries.
It can be run and managed
on Amazon EMR clusters.
The AI frameworks and
infrastructure layers are for
expert machine learning
practitioners.
In other words,
for the people who
are comfortable building
deep learning models,
training them, doing predictions,
also known as inference,
and getting the data from
the models into
production applications.
The underlying
infrastructure consists
of Amazon EC2 P3 instances,
which are optimized for
machine learning
and deep learning.
Amazon EC2 P3 instances provide
powerful NVIDIA GPUs to
accelerate computations,
so that customers can
train their models in
a fraction of the time
required by traditional CPUs.
After training, Amazon EC2 C5
compute optimize and aim for
general-purpose instances.
In addition to GPU
based instances,
are well-suited for running
inferences with the
training model.
AWS supports all the major
deep-learning frameworks
and makes them easy to
deploy without AWS,
deep-learning Amazon
machine image,
which is available for
Amazon Linux and Ubuntu,
so that you can create managed,
automatically
scalable clusters of
GPUs for training and
inference at any scale.
It comes pre-installed
with technologies
like Apache MX net, tenser flow,
Cafe and Caffe2 and auto-populate
Machine Learning software such as
the Anaconda package
for data science.
Now let's go through
a few use cases.
Almost all industry domains are
now innovating with AWS AI.
For example, for
fraud dot net uses
Amazon Machine Learning to
support its Machine
Learning models.
The company uses
Amazon DynamoDB and
AWS Lambda to run code
without provisioning
and managing servers.
Fraud.net also uses Amazon
Redshift for data analysis.
What are the benefits that
they get from that setup?
Fraud.net lunches and trains
Machine Learning models
in almost half the time it
took on other platforms.
It reduces complexity and
makes sense of emerging
Fraud patterns.
It saves customers about a
million dollars each week.
To summarize, you can
create an impact in
your business by automating
repetitive and manual tasks,
engaging customers and optimizing
product quality using AI.
I hope you learned a
little something and we'll
continue to explore
all the courses.
I'm Dan Banger with AWS AI
and thanks for watching.